To make this work, I'll fold up
my base here, fold up my intro,
fold up my contact.
We're in the nav portion of the code here,
and
what we're going to do is add
some media queries to this.
What do media queries do?
Anybody know what a media query is and
what it does?
Well, what's a query?
Query is a question, right?
So we're questioning our media.
[LAUGH] And the media in this particular
case is gonna be the width of the screen.
So we're gonna ask a question,
is the width of this screen
no more than some number?
And we determine that number by moving
the little bar around until we find some
number that works.
In this case, I am going to say @media and
then I'm going to give it a test.
So, hey,
this is a media query browser, and
what I want you to find out is,
if we are at a max-width: 830px.
And then we're gonna put
in some curly brackets and
our styles will go inside
of this as the media query.
Now let me just ask you,
if my screen is 750px wide,
will these styles apply whatever
I put inside the media query?
How many people say yes, absolutely,
those styles will apply.
If the width of my screen is 750px,
will the media query here with
a max-width: 830px, any styles that
I put in there, will they apply?
Absolutely yes?
Absolutely no?
No idea?
[LAUGH] Okay, the answer is yes,
styles in there will apply up until 830px.
As the screen gets bigger than that,
these styles will no longer apply, okay?
Now, you probably were used to working
in the opposite way with minimum width
media queries, right?
That is the other way that you can work,
in which case, we're working from a mobile
device and making something bigger.
In this case, we're making something
big and we're making it go smaller.
In the case of working with
navigation in particular and
in case of working with beginners, I find
that designing the desktop first and
then making things smaller,
tends to work better mentally [LAUGH].
We just follow it better for
whatever reason.
The code is actually easier to
write as well for navigation bars.
So that's why I'm taking this approach.
Okay, so first of all here, inside of our
media query with a max-width of 830px,
we're gonna tell our header
to change its alignment.
So right now,
our header is set to put a space between.
So it's gonna say,
put the name over here on the left and
put the nav bar over here on the right.
I'm gonna change that to
justify-content: center.
And nothing is gonna change on
my screen cuz I'm not at 830.
So get it to 830, Let me see, am I there?
I'm actually there right now,
it's not wrapping, when it does wrap,
which is a little bit smaller,
it will in fact be centered on the screen.
But patience,
we're gonna make it work just right now.
So for my header h1,
what we're gonna do is we're going to say,
let me give you all the properties and
then I'll explain them,
flex-basis: 100%; text-align: center; and
margin-bottom: 2rem;.
Okay, so what just happened here?
[LAUGH] So flex-basis: 100%,
you are familiar with the concept
of width, I know you are.
If I said the width was 100%, it would
be 100% of the containing element.
Here we have a thing called flex-basis.
When you work with flexbox,
there are no widths.
And the reason why is, even if I
said the width was, let's say, 25%,
25% is actually an absolute number.
It would never be 24.9%, it'll never
be 25.1%, it will always be 25%.
The flex in flexbox means that
25% is a kind of dimension.
[LAUGH] Sometimes it might be 25%,
sometimes it might be more than that,
sometimes it might be less than that.
That is the flex in flexbox.
And the way we make that magic happen
is through the flex-basis property.
So here, because we're working with
flexbox, I've set this to 100%.
And what that means is that that box that
has the name in it is going to take up
a 100% of the screen width there.
See that?
So it's up there on the top and
it's taking up a 100%.
And if I put a border on it, because
some of you look puzzled, 2px solid red,
You can see, there it is, taking up
the full width of everything, yeah?
Okay, because it's taking up
the full width of everything,
what happens to the navbar?
The navbar doesn't have room, so it wraps
onto the next line automatically for you.
Make sense?
Awesome, so that's all we have to do.
Now this is working for smaller screens,
probably somewhere around
the tablet dimension.
Very, very cool, any questions?
So we've gone from throwing our logo
on the left and our navbar on the right
to making them stack on top of
each other and look pretty, okay?
And that works really well
until we get smaller, right?
Now we start to approach
phone screen dimensions and
you could live with that maybe.
But you're probably thinking it
should be a hamburger button, right,
that's the button with
the three stripes on it.
So now comes this part.
And this is probably
a little bit more difficult,
probably one of the more
difficult things that we do today.
But I will talk you through all
of this code, and remember,
there is an end-state to this code pen so
you can see the hamburger button working.
Okay, so what we're gonna
do with a hamburger button?
The first thing we need to do is,
make a change to our code in the HTML.
So right now we have an h1, we have a nav.
We're going to add this item right here,
which I currently have commented out.
So we're going to add this button here,
okay?
And you'll notice that this is a button
with a type of button, [LAUGH] which seems
rather repetitive, but this just means
that this is an actual functioning button.
Tabindex ="-1" has to do with usability,
it will be skipped over
under most circumstances.
And guess what hidden does?
It's hidden [LAUGH].
Okay, awesome.
So we're gonna add this.
This will ultimately become,
basically, our hamburger button.
Now we can set all of this up and
style it once we have that in place.
So this is where you need to watch
your little curly brackets here, okay?
We wanna still be within the layer of nav,
but we want to be not inside
our last media query.
So you may wanna fold up your media query
here and we're going to add @media,
And this is gonna be a max-width: 640px.
Why?
Because when I tested it,
that seemed to be a good dimension.
All right, so
I have my screen in about 525px right now.
So these styles would be applying.
All right so header,
we're gonna go back to aligning
these as justify-content: space-between.
And the reason why is, ultimately, when
this becomes a hamburger button, we wanna
have the name on the left and we wanna
have the hamburger button on the right.
So space-between is a good
way to set that up.
I need to turn off the,
my h1 right now is taking up 100%
of that space,
I need to turn that off, so header h1
That is going to go to flex-basis: auto;
And we'll just see that as going over to
the left hand side right now, the navbar
is not able to wrap up next to it, but
if we had it programmed as such, it could.
Okay, then header button.
This is now, perhaps,
one of the confusing moments.
This is the HTML button as
opposed to our class of button.
We had a class of button on a link
because that button, button,
when we clicked on it, we went somewhere.
That is the definition of a link,
when you click on it, you go somewhere.
HTML buttons, not the class,
but the HTML button,
lots of different things can happen
when you click those buttons.
Often, they're triggered by JavaScript.
In this particular case,
we're gonna trigger it by CSS, but
it's not taking us anywhere.
In this case, it's gonna show
us our navigation, ultimately.
So notice that there's no period
in front of that header button.
Display: block; font-size:
3rem; line-height; 1;
border: 0; background-color:
transparent; and
the color: var(--white).
And if you see it at all, I think it sort
of flashed around a little bit there,
it kind of looked like a dash for a while
and kind of a fat dash and a skinny dash.
And now it's completely disappeared.
If that happened, that's awesome, that's
exactly what we're looking for, okay?
So this is a bunch of styling that
we just need to add here in place.
We can also add a hover state to this,
header button: hover; color: var(--green).
And then comes the magic part,
which is header button,
two colons, not one, two colons after.
And so this is a pseudo element.
So we're saying, after the button,
we are going to put in this.
And it's gonna look really weird,
content: "\2630".
And I think it's unicode code or
something similar, but
it's one of those kind of encoding
things that gives us the three stripes.
So now it shows up, Okay?
So all of this is needed so
that when we roll over the button,
we have a white button,
when we roll over it, it turns green.
All of that stuff is needed for that.
And we want it big so
that's where our font-size of 3rem is and
we want it with minimal line-height.